# Flood-Modeling
Flood modeling using machine learning

In this project I will research best machine learning methods to model and predict flooding(primarily in the UK). I will link several papers that could be useful and guide me through this project.

Update as of 1/24/2023:
  So I have found several published papers on flood modeling using various machine learning approaches. I will attach the PDF's the the appropriate section of this project. I have really been focusing on one paper in particular. This is: Estimating the UK Index Flood: an Improved Spatial Flooding Analysis. I chose this because it is doing UK flood modeling. I found the datasource that it takes in, and have downloaded only a fraction of the valuable data. While the data is sparse, I have taken steps to look through and understand what exactly I am looking at it. The current data table I have is mostly metadata, and only a fraction of the 106 columns have discrete numerical values. Many other columns just describe what exactly exists out there as additional data. After looking at this little bit of data as a silly idea I trained a supervised learning linear regression model after splitting the data into a training and testing set. I never could achieve a score over 78, which likely comes from my naivity in filling all NaN values with 0s. Now that I write this it makes me feel silly, however I was trying to get a simple model out. Next I needed to reducabe the size of the dataset I was working with because if I can get my programs to work on the smaller set I can translate them to the larger set. I then selected 50 points that I could clearly see were a part of 3 clusters and then built some clustering algortithms using a combination of elbow and silouhette scoring metrics to identify the optimalto number of clusters and then go about clustering them and even identifying the centers. Next will be gathering more data to continue and take on a new approach of modeling the QMED metric.
